# 5.23.0
Released 5th December 2024.

This is a minor feature release, including new gameplay features, internals improvements, API additions and
deprecations, and improvements to timings.

**Plugin compatibility:** Plugins for previous 5.x versions will run unchanged on this release, unless they use internal APIs, reflection, or packages like the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` or `pocketmine\data` namespace.
Do not update plugin minimum API versions unless you need new features added in this release.

**WARNING: If your plugin uses the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` namespace, you're not shielded by API change constraints.**
Consider using the `mcpe-protocol` directive in `plugin.yml` as a constraint if you're using packets directly.

## General
- `/timings` now supports collecting timings from async task workers. These new timings will be shown alongside `Full Server Tick` timings, but will not be counted in total load.
- Added `/xp` command.
- `start.sh` will now emit warnings when the server process exits with an unusual exit code. This helps to detect unexpected segmentation faults and other kinds of native errors.

## Gameplay
- Added the following new items:
  - End Crystal
  - Goat Horn (all variants)
  - Ice Bomb (from Education Edition)
  - Recovery Compass
- Added the following enchantments:
  - Frost Walker
- Sugarcane now self-destructs when there is no water adjacent to the base block.
- Added basic support for middle-clicking on entities to get their spawn eggs.
- Added sounds when drinking potions.
- Eating food is now allowed in creative mode and in peaceful difficulty.

## API
### `pocketmine\block`
- Extracted `MultiAnyFacingTrait` and `MultiAnySupportTrait` from `GlowLichen` to enable reuse in other blocks.
- The following API methods have been deprecated:
  - `Campfire->getInventory()` - this was added by mistake and can't be well-supported given the way that blocks work

### `pocketmine\command`
- The following classes have been added:
  - `ClosureCommand` - allows registering a closure to execute a command

### `pocketmine\event`
- Added APIs to `PlayerInteractEvent` to allow toggling item and block interactions.
  - This allows various customisations, such as allowing interactions when sneaking, selectively disabling item or block reactions, etc.
  - If both item and block interactions are disabled, the event is **not** cancelled (blocks can still be placed).
  - The following API methods have been added:
    - `public PlayerInteractEvent->setUseBlock(bool $useBlock) : void`
    - `public PlayerInteractEvent->setUseItem(bool $useItem) : void`
    - `public PlayerInteractEvent->useBlock() : bool` - returns whether the block can respond to the interaction (toggling levers, opening/closing doors, etc).
    - `public PlayerInteractEvent->useItem() : bool` - returns whether the item can respond to the interaction (spawn eggs, flint & steel, etc).
- The following new classes have been added:
  - `player\PlayerEntityPickEvent` - called when a player middle-clicks on an entity

### `pocketmine\inventory\transaction`
- The following API methods have been deprecated:
  - `InventoryAction->onAddToTransaction()`

### `pocketmine\permission`
- The following API methods have been deprecated:
  - `PermissionManager->getPermissionSubscriptions()`
  - `PermissionManager->subscribeToPermission()`
  - `PermissionManager->unsubscribeFromAllPermissions()`
  - `PermissionManager->unsubscribeFromPermission()`

### `pocketmine\plugin`
- The following classes have been deprecated:
  - `DiskResourceProvider`
  - `ResourceProvider`

### `pocketmine\promise`
- `Promise::all()` now accepts zero promises. This will return an already-resolved promise with an empty array.

### `pocketmine\scheduler`
- Added PHPStan generic types to `TaskHandler` and related APIs in `TaskScheduler` and `Task`.
- The following API methods have been deprecated
  - `AsyncTask->publishProgress()`
  - `AsyncTask->onProgressUpdate()`

### `pocketmine\timings`
- Timings can now notify other code when timings are enabled/disabled, reloaded, or collected.
  - The intent of this is to facilitate timings usage on other threads, and have the results collected into a single timings report.
  - Timings cannot directly control timings on other threads, so these callbacks allow plugins to use custom mechanisms to toggle, reset and collect timings.
  - PocketMine-MP currently uses this to collect timings from async task workers. More internal threads may be supported in the future.
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `public static TimingsHandler::getCollectCallbacks() : ObjectSet<\Closure() : list<Promise<list<string>>>` - callbacks for (asynchronously) collecting timings (typically from other threads). The returned promises should be resolved with the result of `TimingsHandler::printCurrentThreadRecords()`.
  - `public static TimingsHandler::getReloadCallbacks() : ObjectSet<\Closure() : void>` - callbacks called when timings are reset
  - `public static TimingsHandler::getToggleCallbacks() : ObjectSet<\Closure(bool $enable) : void>` - callbacks called when timings are enabled/disabled
  - `public static TimingsHandler::requestPrintTimings() : Promise<list<string>>` - asynchronously collects timing results from all threads and assembles them into a single report
- The following API methods have been deprecated:
  - `TimingsHandler::printTimings()` - this function cannot support async timings collection. Use `TimingsHandler::requestPrintTimings()` instead.
  - `Timings::getAsyncTaskErrorTimings()` - internal method that is no longer needed
- The following constants have been deprecated:
  - `Timings::GROUP_BREAKDOWN` - no longer used

### `pocketmine\utils`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `public static Utils::getRandomFloat() : float` - returns a random float between 0 and 1. Drop-in replacement for `lcg_value()` in PHP 8.4.

## Internals
- Blocks are now always synced with the client during a right-click-block interaction. This clears mispredictions on the client in case the new `PlayerInteractEvent` flags were customized by plugins.
- `VanillaBlocks` and `VanillaItems` now use reflection to lookup TypeId constants by registration name, instead of requiring TypeIds to be manually specified.
  - While this is obviously a hack, it prevents incorrect constants from being used when adding new blocks, and guarantees that the names of constants in `BlockTypeIds` and `ItemTypeIds` will match their corresponding entries in `VanillaBlocks` and `VanillaItems` respectively.
  - It also significantly improves readability of `VanillaBlocks` and `VanillaItems`, as well as eliminating ugly code like `WoodLikeBlockIdHelper`.
  - In PM6, the team is exploring options to redesign `VanillaBlocks` and `VanillaItems` to eliminate the need for defining separate TypeIds entirely.
- `ConsoleReader` now uses socket support in `proc_open()` to transmit IPC messages to the server process. Previously, a temporary socket server was used, which was unreliable in some conditions.
- Event handler tests have been converted to PHPUnit tests by mocking `Server` and `Plugin` instances. Previously, these required integration tests for these dependencies.
- Fixed various deprecation warnings in PHP 8.4.
- `netresearch/jsonmapper` is now used at `5.0.0`. The PMMP fork of this library has been removed, as it is no longer needed.

# 5.23.1
Released 5th December 2024.

## Fixes
- Fixed signs not creating a tile when placed.

## Internals
- Improved blockstate consistency check to detect tiles disappearing during refactors.

# 5.23.2
Released 9th December 2024.

## General
- Updated translations for Russian and Korean.

## Fixes
- Fixed server build number.
- Fixed some crashes being misreported as plugin-involved.

## Internals
- Removed legacy `build/make-release.php` script. This script is no longer used, as all releases should now follow the PR workflow.
